# OBAKit

This library is a ground-up rewrite of the core modules of OneBusAway for iOS. It is designed to be stable, relatively bug-free, clear, and well-tested. It is designed to serve as the foundation of OneBusAway in its second decade of life.

## Quick Start

OBAKit uses [Xcodegen](https://github.com/yonaskolb/XcodeGen) to generate its `xcodeproj` file. Follow the copy-and-pasteable instructions below to start hacking on this project.

    # Make sure you have Xcode 10.x installed.
    brew install xcodegen
    xcodegen
    open OBAKit.xcodeproj

### Things Not Working Right?

After running XcodeGen and opening `OBAKit.xcodeproj`, you should be able to run the OneBusAway app (Command+R) and run unit tests (Command+U). If either of these commands do not work, try recreating the OneBusAway scheme:

1. `Product` Menu > `Scheme` > `Manage Schemes`
2. Delete the `OneBusAway` scheme (if it exists)
3. Click on the `Autocreate Schemes Now` button.
4. Click on the `Close` button.
5. Change the active scheme to `OneBusAway`.

I'm sure there's a bug in the `project.yml` file that I have written that is causing this issue. Pull Requests to address this issue are welcome!

## Code and Structure

OBAKit is written almost entirely in Swift 5, with the exception of few small, ancillary pieces.

## Objective-C Compatibility

This project is designed to be usable within both Swift and Objective-C projects. Please open an issue for scenarios encountered where you are unable to effectively use the framework generated by this project in Objective-C code.

## Documentation

This project uses [Jazzy](https://github.com/realm/jazzy), which is written in Ruby, to generate its documentation. To install Jazzy, we recommend following these steps:

```ruby
gem install bundler
bundle install
```

Once Jazzy is installed, you can generate the project's documentation by running the command

```bash
jazzy
```

### Documentation Bugs

Please log bugs with the label `Documentation` on any issues with the documentation, either because the documentation is missing or misleading.

## Functional Areas

### Networking

This framework consists of a Network Service layer and a Model Service layer, each of which have three service classes designed to work with the three data sources that OneBusAway for iOS depends on:

* Regions API
* REST API
* Obaco API (alerts.onebusaway.org or onebusaway.co)

This library would be suitable for using on its own in a custom application that would only need to communicate with a single, previously-defined OneBusAway server.

### Location

Region and location management helps to determine where the user is located in the world, and which OBA region, if any, they are currently located in.

### User Data Services

Management of bookmarks, recently-viewed stops, and other similar data. Basically, any data generated directly or indirectly by the user. This layer is designed around the `UserDataStore` protocol, which should lend itself to being used across multiple implementations. For now, the only implementation provided uses `NSUserDefaults`, but CloudKit or Firebase support, e.g., should be relatively easy to implement.

### Application

This is comprised of view controllers (e.g. `RecentStopsViewController`), controls (e.g. `BorderedButton`), theme support &amp; icons, and orchestration. 'Orchestration' is a catch-all name for the layer of the software that you, the developer, give a set of configuration data to, and are handed back a fully-configured `Application` object that represents a OneBusAway-style app. `Application` handles creating all of the services you'll need: REST, notifications, user data storage, and so forth.

## Runtime Dependencies

Third party dependencies that are linked to via Carthage. See the project's Cartfile for specific versions used.

* [IGListKit](https://github.com/Instagram/IGListKit/) - Data-driven collection views.
* [SwiftProtobuf](https://github.com/apple/swift-protobuf) - Apple's implementation of Protobuf serialization.

# Third Party Libraries

These are third party libraries directly included inside of this project.

## AwesomeSpotlight

Includes AwesomeSpotlight by Aleksandr Shoshiashvili.

    Copyright (c) 2017 aleksandrshoshiashvili <aleksandr.shoshiashvili@gmail.com>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
    THE SOFTWARE.

## DictionaryCoding

Includes DictionaryCoding code by Sam Deane, Elegant Chaos Limited.

    The original code is copyright (c) 2014 - 2017 Apple Inc. and the Swift project authors

    Licensed under Apache License v2.0 with Runtime Library Exception

    See https://swift.org/LICENSE.txt for license information
    See https://swift.org/CONTRIBUTORS.txt for the list of Swift project authors

    Modifications and additional code here is copyright (c) 2018 Sam Deane, and is licensed under the same terms.

## Polyline

Includes Polyline.swift by Raphaël Mor.

    The MIT License (MIT)

    Copyright (c) 2015 Raphaël Mor

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.

## SVPulsingAnnotationView

    Copyright (c) 2013, Sam Vermette <hello@samvermette.com>

    Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby
    granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING
    ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
    DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
    PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
    WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

# Apache 2.0 License

    Copyright 2018-Present Aaron Brethorst

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.
